# Documentation

This folder should hold the documentation generated by the project.


## The Solution

The Occupation Interchange is a product designed to
* assist workers in post COVID Australia to recognise the skills they have acquired in their current role and to identify other roles that they may be suitable for;
* assist workers to plan their long term careers by comparing their current role to their dream role and to identify the areas of professional development;
* assist workers who have lost their jobs due to the economic downturn caused by COVID lockdowns to re-enter the workforce in previously unconsidered roles;
* assist students to convert their aptitude for classwork into workplace skills, allowing them to find meaningful work;
* assist stay-at-home parents, the long term unemployed, and those with disabilities to recognise the transferability of their daily tasks to a workplace environment;
* assist teachers and training organisations to address their teaching focus, identifying and targetting core employment skills;


### Youth education and employment (National)

Problem? How might we use publicly available data to identify education and employment opportunities for our youth?

Solution? This project creates a web portal that youth can use to find the sort of jobs that they can excel in. It makes use of the Taxation Statistics Data 2018-19 to enrich the search results.

### Exploring the National Skills Commission’s Australian Skills Classification (National)

Problem? How can the general public learn about and be encouraged to interact with the Australian Skills Classification to identify skills within occupations, identify their own skillsets and identify transferability to other occupations of interest?

Solution? This project create a web portal that the public can use to identify occupations that are similar to their current occupation to facilitate a sea change, or to view the skills required of a dream job to guide their professional development. It makes use of the Australian Skills Classification Dataset.

### Rethinking Education (QLD)

Problem? With COVID-19, we have had to re-think education. How can we provide a better and safer education using digital technologies that complement and enhance on campus experiences?

Solution? It's hard enough to be in class trying to grasp the subject matter without having to also work out what it's good for. You could try to book time with the career counsellor who will judge you based on grades and whether the school uniform fits, or you could use this web portal to browse jobs and choose something you're interested in. Makes use of the Australian Skills Classification Dataset and the Taxation Statistics Data 2018-19.

## User Stories

I, as an employed or recently unemployed person, choose my occupation from a list. The system will provide me with the list of skills that are relevant to my occupation. I can mark them more or less important or leave the default settings. The application will then list for me occupations that match the selected skills with expected salary range.

I, as a long term unemployed or as a student, choose my skills and competency from a list and indicate how competent I am. The application will then list for me occupations that match the selected skills with expected salary range.

## Design

```
Find an occupation based on
[X] skillset
[ ] aptitude
[ ] role

Choose up to 10 skills:
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]
Skill: [ --choose a skill -- ]

The following occupations match your selected skills:
+------------+--------------+
| Occupation | Salary Range |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
```

```
Find an occupation based on
[ ] skills
[X] competencies
[ ] role

Choose up to 10 competencies and rate your ability in each:
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10
Competencies: [ --choose a competencies -- ]     Ability: 0 ---|--- 10

The following occupations match your selected competencies:
+------------+--------------+
| Occupation | Salary Range |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
```

```
Find an occupation based on
[ ] skillset
[ ] aptitude
[X] role

Skills that align with your current role are:
+------------+--------------+--------------+
|  Category  |  Skill Type  |    Skill     |
+------------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              |              |
|            |              |              |
|            |              |              |
|            |              |              |
|            |              |              |
+------------+--------------+--------------+

The following occupations have similar skills to your current role:
+------------+--------------+
| Occupation | Salary Range |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
```

## Future Work

Click through on the occupation results list to show the skill gap between the original and chosen occupations.

Click through on the skill list and skill gap list to show the offerings from Training Organisations so that users can either search for ways to segway to a new role, or target a specific desired role.

Provide a graph of salaries over the past 10 years for the occupations in the result list. Extend the graph into the future based on the trend line.

Make the various lists alphabetical. Currently they're in ANZSCO Code order.
